mighty joe young blunders about for nearly twenty minutes before we actually get to see a great big gorilla . 
his entrance , however , is a grand one : out from the trees he leaps , gargantuan and imposing , sporting hands big enough to crush a volkswagen bug , and a pair of feet much larger than any pro basketball player will ever have . 
joe bellows at the poachers before him , angry that they would like to kill him and sell him for millions of dollars . 
during this scene , i turned to my friend and said , " wow . 
that's some ape . " 
joe is quite a gorilla -- a big , digital gorilla . 
he runs around the fields , chasing cars and people . 
he picks things up and stares at them pensively . 
he breaks things on accident , because he's just too big to avoid clumsiness . 
joe , as a special effect , is an image that might hold your interest for five minutes . 
as a character , he doesn't quite register . 
and the story he's been put in is as limp as they come . 
the words " family entertainment " have never been a stamp of quality , but might joe young is just a silly special effects movie pretending to have a heart . 
the picture is a remake of the 1949 film . 
it's mostly just about the big gorilla , but , strictly as a formality , the movie also has a few human characters . 
the main one is jill young ( poor charlize theron , forced to waste her talent ) , a lover of gorillas . 
as a child , she witnessed a group of poachers murder her mother ; now , she lives in the jungle to protect the wildlife . 
specifically , she's out to protect joe , a giant gorilla who has been her friend since her childhood . 
soon , zoologist gregg o'hara ( bill paxton ) discovers joe ; he quickly realizes that poachers want to get joe and sell him to a big game hunter named strasser ( rade sherbedgia ) , who just happens to be the same guy who killed jill's mother . 
so , in an effort to save joe , jill and gregg take the big gorilla to a preserve , where it is instantly clear that he is not safe from poachers . 
in addition , the space is way too small for him ( after all , he is a really big gorilla ) . 
and , to add to the complications , strasser shows up under a benevolent pretext ( he tells jill that he has a preserve big enough for joe ) , and joe recognizes strasser as the guy who killed jill's mother . 
jill , of course , doesn't recognize strasser , even though he did kill her mother . 
this is just one of the many examples of stupidity in mighty joe young , a film that fulfills every stereotype that comes with a special effects film . 
the movie isn't really offensive -- it has some competent actors , a few nifty sets , and a lot of scenes with a big , digitized gorilla . 
but the story is really dumb , there aren't any characters , and the film isn't satisfying on any level beyond its visuals . 
the movie also has bad dialogue . 
if a critic says that a film has bad dialogue , it's only fair to quote some of it , but most of the words spoken in this picture are phrases like " joe isn't happy ! " 
and " joe isn't safe here ! " 
 " we need to get joe out of here ! " 
 " joe is way too big for that cage ! " 
i don't know if these phrases are word for word , but they're close . 
as i said , the characters here are only present as a formality : they do little more than state the obvious ( of * course * joe is too big for that cage ) . 
paxton and theron are talented performers who deserve to work on a script that provides characters for them . 
sadly , mighty joe young wastes them both . 
there are a few clever moments ( although none of them are surfacing in my memory at the moment ) , and , as i said , the digital effects held my attention for at least five minutes . 
it's certainly not a bad film for kids ; i doubt joe will give them nightmares . 
but adults in the audience aren't likely to find much of anything interesting about the big gorilla . 
a big gorilla is only interesting for a little while ; after that , something needs to be done with the big gorilla . 
nobody ever figures out what to do with the big gorilla . 


second movie 
the law of crowd pleasing romantic movies states that the two leads must end up together by film's end . 
if you're not familiar with this law , then maybe you've seen the trailer for this film which shows that the two leads are together by film's end . 
now if you're a regular reader of mine , you've heard me say this countless times : you know how drive me crazy is going to end , but is the journey to get to that ending worth it ? 
no , it definitely is not . 
melissa joan hart ( from abc's " sabrina , the teenage witch " ) likes a hunky stud on the basketball team . 
adrien grenier is her grungy neighbor who's just broken up with his activist girlfriend . 
apparently he wants to make his ex-girlfriend jealous enough to take him back , and she wants someone to take her to the big year end dance . 
so the two pretend to date for some reason , but only after hart gives grenier a bath to turn him into a hunky stud . 
will grenier like his new popularity and turn on his friends ? 
will this crazy scheme work ? 
do i care ? 
the teen comedy resurgence of late has been surprisingly good in terms of comedy . 
what makes movies like can't hardly wait and 10 things i hate about you work ( and to a lesser extent , she's all that and never been kissed ) is because the writers of those films seem to realize that high school is a joke and write their scripts accordingly . 
i don't know what the writer's intention was with drive me crazy . 
there was some smart comedy in those films to make the obvious endings worth getting to . 
here there's nothing . . . 
just teens whining about who's going to take them to the big dance . 
do me a favor kids , go get a job or something . . . 
just shut the hell up . 
in all honesty , the best part of this film is the end credits . 
now normally when i say that it's followed with the joke " . . . because the movie is finally over . " 
in this case though the end credits really are the most entertaining part of the film . 
after the obligatory second playing of britney spears' titular song , there's a quick commercial jingle for a burger joint the kids in the film hang out in and a brief rendition of the school song for their high school . 
nothing great , but more entertaining than anything in the 90 minutes which preceded them . 
sci-fi fans take note : there are brief appearances from stephen collins ( star trek : the motion picture ) and faye grant ( the tv miniseries " v " and " v : the final battle " ) . 
[pg-13] 

third movie

 " spawn " features good guys , bad guys , lots of fighting , bloody violence , a leather-clad machine gun chick , gooey , self-healing bullet holes , scatological humor and a man-eating monster . 
it not only appears to have been tailor made for a swarm of 12- and 13-year-old boys , it appears to have been made by them . 
in a classic example of telling and not showing , " spawn " opens with a truckload of mumbo jumbo about forces of darkness , forces of light and how " men are the ones who create evil on earth . " 
so much for a message . 
the movie then lurches forward into the plight of al simmons ( michael jai white ) , a government assassin/operative who is murdered by diabolical boss jason wynn ( martin sheen , who plays all of his scenes like an oscar clip ) while on a top secret mission in a north korean biological weapons plant . 
simmons goes to hell and back , after making a deal with satan himself -- if he agrees to command the devil's army to overtake the world , he'll be allowed to return to earth to see his wife wanda ( underused theresa randle ) and little girl cyan ( sydni beaudoin ) . 
of course , seeing as how five years has passed , wanda has fallen for -- and married -- simmons' partner ( d . b . 
sweeney ) . 
his , uh , shoulder to cry on comes in the form of clown ( john leguizamo ) , a disgustingly disproportioned minion of satan's . 
clown manipulates simmons , now in superhuman spawn form , into a stand off with wynn . 
wynn , who thinks he is in league with the double-dealing clown , recognizes spawn as a threat and undergoes an operation where a bomb is placed on his heart -- when it stops beating , major cities around the world will detonate , causing the leak of a disease that " makes the ebola virus look like a skin rash . " 
phew . got all that ? 
it would be easy to dismiss " spawn " as just another one of those heavy-on-fx , short-on-substance action pics , but it doesn't even work on that level . 
the computer-generated sequences are often and plenty , and the problem is that they look too computer-generated . 
the several scenes set in hell present a devil that looks and acts like a video game graphic -- with the movie's healthy budget you'd think they could have afforded to make his mouth move when he talks . 
other elements of the movie are so-so ; spawn's enormous red , flowing cape is a wonderful sight , but it's too obvious when he's being played by a costumed actor or an image . 
in movies like " contact , " the special effects serve the story . 
in " spawn , " they are the story . 
and spawn himself isn't even an interesting character . 
the film's reliance on razzle-dazzle would be acceptable if we were given somebody to root for , but both simmons and his funky alter-ego are completely underdeveloped . 
what we need is a batman , a luke skywalker . 
even watching the adventures of kleenex man would be more interesting than spawn . 
poor leguizamo . 
he starred in february's " the pest , " a movie that i still think is the year's worst so far , although this one does give it a run for its money . 
as clown , he overacts to the extreme , never missing an opportunity for a poor-taste punchline . 
leguizamo farts green mist , munches a pizza slice covered with maggots and even dons a mini-skirt and performs a cheerleader routine , all before turning into a giant grey demon . 
the guy was brilliant in " to wong foo , thanks for everything ! 
julie newmar . " 
what is he doing wasting his talent in this and " the pest " ? 
i'm one of the few people that liked " batman & robin , " this summer's other big-budget comic book film . 
yet after catching this movie and making the inevitable comparison , i can only hope people will change their minds and think of " batman " as the superior adaptation . 
there's a compelling story somewhere in " spawn " -- including strong religious overtones and the debut of the first african-american superhero ever -- but it's just not found anywhere near here . 
as it is , " spawn " is just awful -- it stinks worse than a dead trout . 
